Documentation for BodyBuild - A user's guide
By Curtis Hsu

Preview
    BodyBuild is hosted by the CS50 IDE. To access the page, you must start 
    apache50 with the command "apache50 start ~/workspace/FinalProject/public"
    in Curtis Hsu's CS50 terminal, as well as allow acces to MySQL with the
    command "mysql50 start". Once this has been done, the website can be found
    at https://ide50-curtishsu.cs50.io


About - What is BodyBuild?

    Working out is difficult, and making a workout can be even harder. The 
    mission of BodyBuild is to assist aspiring exercisers in creating workout
    routines in a simple and sleek manner. 
    

Logging in/Registering

    If you already have an account, simply log in by entering your username and
    password into their respective input boxes. To register, click on the 
    hyperlink under the login button. You will be asked for a username and 
    a password. Your password must be at least 8 characters long. Once you 
    register or log in, you are ready to build your workout!
    
    
Building a workout

    To create a workout, hover over the drop down tab labeled "build." Then, 
    click on "create a workout." On this page, you will specify the name of your
    workout, the intensity, and a quick description of it. It is important to 
    note that all fields must be filled in to create a workout. Also, each
    workout name must be unique. Once you create a workout, you will be directed
    to a "Search" page. If you already have a workout that you are adding to,
    you can either click the link at the bottom of the "Build" page or click
    on the "Search" or "Add to a workout" options that are under the same drop
    down tab as build. 
    
    The next step in building your workout is searching for exercises. Simply
    search for the muscle group that you hope to workout and you will be
    directed to a table that contains a list that names each exercise, specifies
    the muscle used, specifies if weights are need, gives a quick description of
    the exercise, and gives a link to a website that provides a visual aid. Once
    you see an exercise you like, click on the link at the bottom of the table 
    or clickon the "Add to a workout" option that was under the "build" drop 
    down tab.
    
    The final step of building your workout is adding the exercise. Select
    the workout you want to add to, the number of sets and reps of the exercise
    you want to do, and the name of the exercise. Unfortuneately, reverse 
    exercising isn't possible, so sets and reps must be positive numbers. Once
    you have filled in all the fields, click add.
    
    Congratulations! You have created your workout! If you wish to add to it,
    you can navigate between searching and adding via the links at the bottom
    of the page or the "build" drop down menu.


Sharing your exercises

    BodyBuild also allows users to help other exercisers get fit by inserting 
    their own exercises into our database. To contribute to the database, click
    on the "share your exercises" option under the "share" drop down menu. With 
    the exception of a link to a visual aid, all fields are required. Exercise
    names are unique, so if there is an exercise already in our database, then
    you won't be able to add in your exercise if it shares the same name.


Viewing your workouts

    To see all of your past workouts, hover over the "view" drop down tab and 
    click on the "See all your workouts" option. Here, you will see all of your 
    workout routines with the description and intensity you had labeled them
    with earlier. To see the exercises of a specific exercise, either hover 
    over the "view" tab and click on "see one workout" or click on the link
    below the table with all of the workouts. In the drop down menu, select
    which workout you want to see. Click search and you will be directed to
    a table with the details of your workout routine.
    

Managing your account

    To log out, hover over the "account" tab and click "log out." To change your
    password, hover over the "account" tab and click "change password." Your new
    password must be at least eight characters long. 
    
    
Good Luck!